start time: 00:08:00.000
end time: 02:33:12.000
confidence: 0.94
A: I'm sorry, the audit Committee meeting and I thought we'd start with introductions and maybe we could start with how about we start with Andrew and then move.

start time: 02:33:36.000
end time: 04:45:12.000
confidence: 0.85
B: To my young yeah, happy to. Hi, I'm Andrew Scott. I use him pronouns and I am on the school board and the audit committee.

start time: 04:46:56.000
end time: 05:04:20.000
confidence: 0.94
C: Glad to be here.

start time: 06:02:40.000
end time: 09:42:58.000
confidence: 0.93
A: Hi everybody. Myung Lee, he him pronouns as well. And I'm participating remotely today as well. Thank you for accommodating me being out of town today.

start time: 09:43:54.000
end time: 09:56:30.000
confidence: 1.00
C: Thank you.

start time: 10:05:30.000
end time: 10:24:30.000
confidence: 0.98
A: Good for you.

start time: 10:52:10.000
end time: 12:37:06.000
confidence: 0.82
C: Communications Department D. Sampson, Internal Auditor I'm.

start time: 12:37:38.000
end time: 13:26:30.000
confidence: 0.77
A: Andrea Shears of the In House Councils.

start time: 13:38:50.000
end time: 17:28:40.000
confidence: 0.80
C: Catherine Nor Darnal, Collector Michelle De Pass, Audit Committee Chairman Board member Jennifer Samuels she her pronouns I am a partner and a community member at PPS and a prospective member of this committee.

start time: 17:40:20.000
end time: 19:05:48.000
confidence: 0.76
D: Judy Brennan, Enrollment and Transfer Director Donald he him.

start time: 19:06:44.000
end time: 19:58:40.000
confidence: 0.99
A: I am the Chief Technology Officer for schools.

start time: 20:07:00.000
end time: 21:36:40.000
confidence: 0.85
C: Caroline Zabakovsky, she her pronouns and I'm a community member of the audit committee.

start time: 21:48:30.000
end time: 23:37:30.000
confidence: 0.83
A: Jay or JC I am the student body funds Coordinator. County Analyst.

start time: 23:51:10.000
end time: 24:25:30.000
confidence: 0.63
C: Kara Benshaw, Executive Assistant.

start time: 24:33:50.000
end time: 86:56:50.000
confidence: 0.94
A: Excellent. So I'd like to move our one item up on the agenda and that's the discussion of a community member community member positions on the Audit Committee. So In September of September 2023 audit committee meeting, we considered the appointment of community member Jennifer Samuels to the Audit Committee. And in fact, in advance of the September 2023 audit committee meeting, we circulated Ms. Samuel's letter of interest and resume with audit Committee members. And although it's been the practice of PPS to appoint two community members to the Audit Committee, in that meeting we became aware that the PPS policy, ITS Board Policy 1.6 0.040 District Performance Auditing was silent on the inclusion of community community members on the Audit Committee. So that's just something that we found during September of 2023. At the September 2023 audit committee meeting, we asked PPS's internal auditor, Janice Hansen to work with the policy committee to update the policy to include the role of two community member positions on the Audit Committee and include a conflict of interest paragraph. And we did that because there's great value to having people that are outside of the district or, you know, tangentially related through kids or, you know, just it's great to have volunteers from the community on this committee. It helps it do its work better. In the December 2023 audit committee, PPS internal auditor brought the proposed updates to the policy to the Audit Committee. And in the PPS board meeting on January 9 to 2024, the PPS board approved the Updates to the policy via board resolution 6815. So now that we have the policy updated, I'd like to formally propose the addition of Jennifer Samuel to fill the open community number position on the Audit committee. And thank you for showing up because of your home administration. Could be doing something else besides audit committee work. So we circulated Ms. Samuel's resume in advance of the September 2023 audit committee meeting. But it's been a while so I'm going to pull some highlights of Ms. Samuels PPS Volunteer Committee, product participation and partnership experiences that reflect her long term support. Yes. Ms. Samuels is the mother of two children. I'm sorry. Two students who both graduate from Grant High school. Yay. In 2015, she was invited by the superintendent to provide feedback by an ad hoc committee on the biennium budget allocation process. From 2014 to 2016, she was invited by PPS leadership to participate in the development of literacy and curriculum plans. From 2013 to 2017, she led and co led a collective impact project in pps the Read Together initiative. But we're going to go keep going. And in 2020-2022, she was appointed by the PPS board to the Community Budget Review Committee. Almost done. And that's not even a complete list of all the ways that Ms. Samuel has supported PPS over the years. I'm sure you've also baked cupcakes and battle field trips and been on pta. That's not listed here. So I want to thank you for your ongoing support to PPS and also just thank you for remaining committed to joining the Audit Committee. It's taken us a while to get here while we got the policy updated. So to. In order to appoint Ms. Samuel to the Audit Committee, the current audit Committee needs to vote vote to refer Ms. Samuel to the full board for appointment. Is there any discussion or comments? Accolades are okay too.

start time: 87:32:30.000
end time: 87:39:18.000
confidence: 0.99
D: Just.

start time: 87:40:14.000
end time: 88:27:30.000
confidence: 0.72
C: Thank you for waiting. All the seats take.

start time: 89:19:10.000
end time: 94:31:10.000
confidence: 0.96
A: All right. I would like. I would like to the Audit Committee to vote to refer Ms. Samuels to the full board for appointment. What we're doing is voting it out of this committee to the full board. So moved.

start time: 94:46:10.000
end time: 95:00:26.000
confidence: 0.76
D: Yes.

start time: 95:03:38.000
end time: 100:27:14.000
confidence: 0.94
A: Second. Okay. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Great. So thank you everyone. That was a little awkward, but we got it. We'll move it to the full board. And I'd like to ask Ms. Hansen to work with the board manager, Ms. Powell to submit the appointment of Ms. Samuels to the Audit Committee to the.

start time: 100:27:22.000
end time: 101:07:50.000
confidence: 0.88
D: Full board for approval.

start time: 103:54:50.000
end time: 104:09:22.000
confidence: 0.80
C: Okay.

start time: 104:11:46.000
end time: 107:16:44.000
confidence: 0.95
A: The next thing is we'll be talking about the status Update of the implementation of the hardship petition transfers, audit recommendations. And I did have a few notes.

start time: 107:17:32.000
end time: 107:32:40.000
confidence: 0.99
C: About that.

start time: 108:15:00.000
end time: 114:34:50.000
confidence: 0.97
A: Basically to say that there's five recommendations coming from the audit from the senior auditor's office, four of them having to do with internal controls, one of them having to do with data collection. And all five of them were agreed to by management. And so I'd like you to, if you'd like to talk about this a little bit in more detail.

start time: 114:36:50.000
end time: 154:21:38.000
confidence: 0.94
C: Sure. So for those of you who are present, I did print this and there's magnifying glasses somewhere. Well, I know sort of read, but I didn't want to at least let you have something to look at. So there were five recommendations. And what we have here is listed the recommendations in the column and then management's response. And then we have the implementation plan section is a section where management can say what they're planning to do to implement the recommendation. The anticipated implementation date is listed as well as comments. And so leading up to this meeting, I met with Judy Brennan to kind of get an idea of where we were with the implementation of all these recommendations. And so on this document, the status update column, the very last column on the side is my reflection or my update on the status of the implementation of the recommendation. I don't know how to say that better. So recommendation number one is related to strengthening the internal control structure to ensure hardship petition transfer requests are approved or denied in alignment with the school district's policy and administrative directives. So the enrollment insurance, they work to do a policy and administrative update, administrative directive update. And I reviewed that, and it. The administrative directive creates a category for open enrollment, which is excellent. So I think by creating the open enrollment category, it's really going to make the process a lot more transparent. So they have definitely made some progress on this one. In order for me to confirm this is fully implemented, I need to do some SWOT testing of hardship petition transfers that have come in. But I don't want to do that until all the recommendations are ready. So that's why I just listed it as in process. But they are making excellent progress on that.

start time: 154:22:34.000
end time: 155:48:02.000
confidence: 0.93
A: Okay, so once, once these are all completed, then you'll go back and do.

start time: 155:48:26.000
end time: 158:34:26.000
confidence: 0.94
C: A test, we'll do a small amount to confirm the implementation, and then I'll update this to say confirm the implementation and then we'll be done with it.

start time: 158:35:38.000
end time: 158:47:50.000
confidence: 0.60
A: Okay.

start time: 158:56:10.000
end time: 186:02:50.000
confidence: 0.96
C: So for recommendation number two is to strengthen internal controls related to supporting documentation. And there was a little bit of misunderstanding about what exactly support, what supporting documentation is necessary to be Retained. But we got that cleared up in the last couple weeks. And so now everybody's on the same page about what documents need to be retained. And they're working on. On getting that process and procedure valid for number three. Can I ask a question on that? Yes. That was they were changing their system. Right. That is related to number five. All right, so then recommendation three is to establish and implement internal controls that will ensure the determination of available space is on a standard set of criteria. So I listed this one as outstanding because there we don't have anything arriving yet. But the creation of the standard set of criteria is going to require a lot of collaboration from some of the other teams without within pbs. And so it's not going to be a quick fix. And I know that Judy's working on getting it implemented.

start time: 186:24:30.000
end time: 189:47:30.000
confidence: 0.93
A: So this is having a standard way to determine whether there's space. That's a yes. No question. Is there space in the classroom and space in the school or.

start time: 189:57:50.000
end time: 190:41:30.000
confidence: 0.98
C: So it's a little complicated.

start time: 190:59:10.000
end time: 191:15:50.000
confidence: 0.65
A: Yes, it means.

start time: 191:17:50.000
end time: 215:35:50.000
confidence: 0.95
C: But so basically when a hardship petition transfer comes in, the department will verify the extraordinary rationale behind the petition and then they reach out to the school where the family has requested to go to in place and ask whether or not there's space available in the school and even in the classroom that the family is asking for specifically. I think it's a little bit easier, at least it was for me to go in and test this for elementary schools because I could just look at the class registry for whatever day. But for high schools, it's a lot harder to determine whether or not there's space available and requires a lot more to consideration. But at the time we did the audit, the when the principals would respond yes or no to whether or not there's space available, that is the answer that the enrollment in transplant center goes with. So if the principal says no, then the answer is there's no space available. And if the principal says yes, then they get approved. The recommendation is to have a standard set of criteria for which on which that decision is made.

start time: 215:37:50.000
end time: 217:27:30.000
confidence: 0.92
A: So would that be based on square footage? Yes, I'm asking you. So.

start time: 217:48:30.000
end time: 230:25:10.000
confidence: 0.96
D: So this is an important topic. It's important to principles that I talk about all the time. More transparency is something that I think everybody agrees would help. And this has been a really dynamic year because of all of the activity that happened in the fall with our labor partners around things like class size. And now we have class size committees coming into play. We still have budget thresholds that are not 100% aligned with those things. Right. So there's a lot of dynamic and moving pieces, and that's why I'm not here today, or I wasn't able to report to the auditor what that standard would be.

start time: 230:27:10.000
end time: 230:34:14.000
confidence: 0.55
A: Okay.

start time: 230:35:02.000
end time: 247:42:24.000
confidence: 0.94
D: I do want to say that there were a couple of things that were identified before in our prior procedures. And one was that in some cases a student could be just denied for no space. There's no space in the school. You're denied. In other cases, they can be added to a wait list. And the auditor found that it appeared that we weren't always consistent and it wasn't clear why those two things would happen. The first step that we were able to take is say, then we're just going to put everybody on a wait list. We can do that consistently. So at this point, using our new software system, everyone who applies and meets the hardship criteria. Now, if we find that it's not a hardship, then they're not added to a waitlist. But if it is and there's space, they get approved if it's not there on a waitlist. So we can keep track of who's asking, how long they've been there and continue to work with schools to see. Well, it's plot size. Are you holding because you think you might. You have a new apartment building. This from your principal yesterday.

start time: 247:43:12.000
end time: 247:48:32.000
confidence: 0.56
A: Yes.

start time: 247:49:36.000
end time: 255:03:06.000
confidence: 0.95
D: New apartment building in your neighborhood. You want to hold on any more transfers until after the start of the year. Okay, here's our waitlist, and we're prepared to do that. But we know it's not consistent gap. We know we need RAA and Office of Schools and probably other stakeholders to be at the table. And it's just not been a year where it was possible to achieve that. So look for that to come forward in 24.

start time: 255:05:17.000
end time: 255:47:04.000
confidence: 0.91
A: 24. Okay, thank you.

start time: 255:48:32.000
end time: 281:59:42.000
confidence: 0.94
C: Appreciate that. So for number four, in reflection, I wish I would have written this recommendation a little bit better because it's pretty close to recommendation one. So for the purposes of this meeting, we're just going to move on. We're not going to really discuss it because I need to work with Judy to make sure I clarify what it is that I'm talking about in that recommendation. So for recommendation 5, this one is a really important one for this year because the enrollment and transferring center got a new software program. And in the past, they had a program that didn't necessarily interface well with or even at all with our student information system. And so now that is the new program is part of our student information system. So I think it's going to make the data reconciliation process, fingers crossed, a lot easier. Possibly. But never want to say that easy word in the same sentence with data reconciliation because it's never easy. But in theory, by having this new process, it should make it a little bit more efficient perhaps. So I looked at this one as outstanding only because we haven't seen anything yet. But after discussing with Judy, she does note that she's on track to create this data present in November of this coming year.

start time: 282:00:06.000
end time: 283:01:30.000
confidence: 0.82
A: Oh, great. So it was that way done well this year.

start time: 283:46:30.000
end time: 283:56:30.000
confidence: 0.68
C: I'm here.

start time: 283:57:10.000
end time: 284:06:54.000
confidence: 0.58
A: It's important.

start time: 284:08:22.000
end time: 284:56:46.000
confidence: 0.90
C: Judy, as her supervisor did not realize.

start time: 284:57:18.000
end time: 286:24:10.000
confidence: 0.93
A: That that's very cool. So, okay, so November of 24.

start time: 286:30:30.000
end time: 299:29:02.000
confidence: 0.95
D: Yeah, that's we'll be able to report on the outcomes of the 2324 transfer cycle and what we hope to include in that. And so there's a lot of stakeholders that may be interested in those reports. One that we know is particularly called out at the policy level is information about the hardship petition transfer. So we believe that we'll be able to produce results for principals that show like all the people who have asked out and why and what. And what the result was. All the people who asked in and why and what the result was. And of course then that that's available to their senior directors as well. So it's a point of conversation.

start time: 299:31:26.000
end time: 299:39:42.000
confidence: 0.94
C: Sure.

start time: 299:41:26.000
end time: 301:00:50.000
confidence: 0.94
D: Where there's strengths, where there's maybe perceptions.

start time: 301:09:10.000
end time: 301:49:50.000
confidence: 0.98
A: Yes. Yeah, I think this is really great.

start time: 301:50:30.000
end time: 308:01:36.000
confidence: 0.97
D: And where we might have trends. So that's not something that we were able to do before, but we know that it's of high value and it was certainly noted as missing before. So there's that and then there's the bigger like just by the numbers kind of analysis to make more visible through our website.

start time: 308:04:08.000
end time: 309:58:20.000
confidence: 0.93
A: That's excellent. I'm really in favor of anytime we can look at trends and get let the data tell a story.

start time: 310:48:00.000
end time: 319:53:00.000
confidence: 0.89
C: So overall that's the status of the implementation of these recommendations. They're definitely in progress and we can see the steps moving forward. And last thing on number five, Judy did promise a walkthrough of the data before the meeting. So I could see how the data was collected and everything. So I'm really excited about that. So in theory, right after November, although that one would be able to be signed up on as completed. Okay, so are we keep offers?

start time: 319:55:40.000
end time: 320:26:52.000
confidence: 0.99
A: It sounds like it. That's great. Thank you.

start time: 320:27:16.000
end time: 320:46:04.000
confidence: 1.00
C: I appreciate the update.

start time: 320:48:12.000
end time: 326:58:20.000
confidence: 0.92
A: This was one I was really, I was really interested and curious about. Is there any other discussion about questions? Okay, we can move on then to the Student body funds report. There's. We're going to have a report presentation.

start time: 328:10:40.000
end time: 328:39:00.000
confidence: 0.90
C: So the.

start time: 329:14:40.000
end time: 330:48:20.000
confidence: 0.94
A: Thank you. Thank you. I realize I'm so self conscious when we start meetings at five, so.

start time: 331:41:20.000
end time: 333:31:02.000
confidence: 0.88
C: So I printed a copy of state bond funds report for people that are here. Thank you guys so much.

start time: 333:32:46.000
end time: 333:53:58.000
confidence: 0.98
A: All 87 pages?

start time: 333:55:34.000
end time: 334:06:50.000
confidence: 0.92
C: Yes.

start time: 334:12:30.000
end time: 335:07:34.000
confidence: 0.92
A: And I was going to print it out too and I changed my mind.

start time: 335:10:22.000
end time: 362:28:14.000
confidence: 0.91
C: Well, I will just kind of start with a high level overview and then I'll walk you through some of the actual steps themselves. So student body funds represent monies held on behalf of students which come from donations, fees, gifts or grants or other monies that are primarily from students, parents, community members or local businesses. Most of these monies are designated for specific purposes. So when somebody donates they can say this is for a field trip. And when that happens, those monies are held in activity accounts that are restricted for the designated use. A couple of examples of what student body funds fees are. So a couple of examples are of revit things that are considered revenues for student body funds. They might be things like textbooks, security deposits, locker deposits, PE attire, towels, the musical instrument fees, optional course fees, admission fees and some extra care activities. So those are the type of things that are considered revenues for student body funds. And some examples of what student body fund expenditures are. And can you.

start time: 362:29:42.000
end time: 363:03:50.000
confidence: 0.90
A: Are you referencing. Referencing a page?

start time: 363:05:10.000
end time: 388:10:20.000
confidence: 0.93
C: I will, but this is just highlighted for us. Okay. A couple of things that are student body fund expenditures are like class activities and field trips, student events, dances, parties. So that's high level what student body funds are and a couple of examples. So if you will open the report to page five. This is the executive summary and it just talks a little bit, but it goes to say the objective of the audit was to determine whether the school district has adequate internal controls to ensure the complete and accurate accounting, tracking and safeguarding student body funds. And then based off of the results of our audit, we found that the school district's internal controls over student body funds need to be strengthened to maintain the overall integrity of the student body funds. The audit did not identify any evidence of intentional fraud, but we did identify some opportunities for improvement and some instances of non compliance. So this report, corresponding audit procedures and results are included in this report. The audit makes seven recommendations and the accounting services department agrees with all seven.

start time: 388:23:20.000
end time: 388:40:48.000
confidence: 0.65
A: Excellent.

start time: 388:43:44.000
end time: 396:20:12.000
confidence: 0.94
C: So next if you will open to your report page 12. So what we did is we picked eight schools. We couldn't go to all of them, but at those eight schools we did a deep dive. Then do all of the student body Fund transactions at that school over the course of the entire year that we audited, which was the 2021 school year.

start time: 396:21:56.000
end time: 400:12:40.000
confidence: 0.90
A: And I, I know, I want to note on those eight schools that there was a mix of like a Title 1 school Comprehensive work we did, we tried to get there. It was a diverse mix of school types is what I was getting at.

start time: 400:25:40.000
end time: 489:56:30.000
confidence: 0.93
C: All right. So the first procedure we did is we wanted to determine if staff assigned with student body fund responsibilities had completed training before they were granted access to the student body fund's account system and signed up as authorized signers on the bank information and also whether or not their access to those two things was terminated timely if they leave employment with PPS or if they transfer to a different department and they no longer have these responsibilities. So at the bottom of page 12 it talks about the results. So at the eight schools, there were 10 different staff members at those eight schools that were assigned student body fund responsibilities. Of those 10 staff members, we weren't able to find evidence that three of them did the training. And that doesn't mean that they didn't do the training. There was no evidence necessarily that they attended the training. Then we also noticed that principals are not required to take the training. And that was kind of surprising to me. But so you can see the corresponding recommendation at the top of page 13 that talks about. We recommend that they require student body fund training is completed before granting access to the student body funds account and having them be authorized signers. And we wanted to be very specific to put in the recommendation. We recommend accounting services department require all staff and including principals with student body fund management and oversight responsibilities to complete the student body fund training. And one thing that I really consider related to this recommendation is the best, most the best use of a principal's time. I'm sure principals have many other things to do other than take trainings related to student body events. So I wanted to try to provide the accounting services department with some ideas on how to implement this recommendation. So in the report, the last two pages of the report is Appendix F. It's called recommendations or consideration. And so if here we have the recommendation listed and then some additional my recommendations for them to consider. So for the training for the principals, we are recommending that the accounting services create a training in Templar, specifically the principals, that focuses primarily on their review and approval processes. And ideally we could get that training down to much shorter. And if we just we narrow the focus into what they're expected to review and approve each month, I think that would kind of Be a good balance between, yes, we require you to do the training, but we're going to create a training that's specific for you, that reduces the amount of time you're going to spend the training and focus on really what it is that you need to be looking for in your. Even in a. Okay then. Okay, let's move on to procedure two on page 14. So here we were looking to determine whether student body fund transactions are for allowable purposes and adequately supported by the required documentation. At the bottom of page 15 starts to talk about the results. And supporting documentation was something that we saw as missing in a few situations. So, for example, the first bullet point there wasn't for those transactions, there wasn't the purchase approval form completed, which is a form that needs to be completed. So like, it doesn't mean that these transactions that in the first bullet point are wrong or anything. They're fine. But the standard body funds manual requires this purchase approval form to be completed. And it wasn't the next bullet point. There were three donations that were $5,000 or greater for a total of $20,000 that do not have both the request for authorization to receive the donation form or the charitable contributions acknowledgement form completed as required. So when we do get donations from whoever it is important to know where that money is coming from.

start time: 490:12:10.000
end time: 492:49:20.000
confidence: 0.94
A: Can I ask about these two recommendations then? Is this something that could be automated? In other words, you can't move to the next step unless this.

start time: 492:55:40.000
end time: 500:07:48.000
confidence: 0.96
C: The purchase approval form is completed right now. It is a separate document, paper document. It's a form so they can go off like go online and fill it out, print it and save it, or go online, fill it out and save it in a Google form or a Google folder. I mean, it's not an automated process.

start time: 500:10:04.000
end time: 502:18:28.000
confidence: 0.95
A: Okay, the process isn't. But also it's like a paper process, which is, I think, more likely to get lost.

start time: 502:20:44.000
end time: 502:32:40.000
confidence: 0.83
C: Yes.

start time: 502:38:20.000
end time: 503:16:00.000
confidence: 0.90
A: Or filed in the wrong place or.

start time: 503:29:00.000
end time: 744:24:30.000
confidence: 0.93
C: I agree. Yeah. It would be great if we could automate this process, but it's not worth. Just automate the whole thing. Okay. So on the top of page 16, there were three student body fund expenditures for a total of just over 5,000 for gang workers that did not have confirmation of payments that were made to the gang workers. There was no evidence of the amounts paid to each gang worker and they lacked the required student body funds disbursement documentation. Further, we noted that expenditures for gang workers is not an allowable student body fund expenditure. So I don't want to get into this one until we Talk more about procedure. We're going to talk about this in procedure five, so I'll just kind of high level leave it at that for now. The next bullet point talks about student body fund expenses for an out of town student trip that does not contain the required documentation. And I know that Director Scott is really passionate about this topic specifically because in board meetings, when out of town field trips come up for board approval, he always is making comments about them. So it's highly likely this documentation for this field trip exists somewhere. But because the board would have had to approve it, but they weren't able to provide it. So that's an issue. The next one is there were 10 expenditures for a total of about 5,700. Where the check stubs were the only documents of record that the school had one of those check stubs, a total of $400 was written that like on the check stub it was written that the check was written for reimbursement of staff lunch, which is not an allowable student body fund expense. For those other 10 expenditures there was nothing written other than the dollar amount on the check set. So we're not sure. We can't tell whether or not the other 10 expenses or checks that were written were for allowable expenses. Next bullet point talks about two fundraising events that did not have written evidence of the principal's prior approval before the event. And then the last bullet point there listed is that one of the eight schools that we selected for testing reported the loss of all of their supporting documentation for that school year, which is very unusual. So I want to make sure and point out that this was a school where they changed locations. I don't want to call any schools out by me, but they moved locations just like following the audit period that we were looking at. And so it seems as if the, the documentation was boxed up and didn't somehow make it to the update. The new, the new school location. So those are the results of some of the things that we found when we were testing. And we are recommending that the accounting services strengthen internal controls to ensure transactions are for allowable purposes and their adequate supported by appropriate documentation. The next procedure is procedure three. This is, I'm going to kind of skim over this because it's kind of just not super serious. But it's about monthly reconciliation reports and making deposits timely. Both of those things are super important. And we did find a few instances where some of the deposits were a little bit late, not super late, maybe a day or two late. So that's great. That they are getting old in pretty, pretty timely. And then for the monthly reconciliation reports we found four of the 96 that we tested were not reviewed and approved by the principal. So it's really important that the principal is trained on what the expectation is because reviewing and proving, I mean they're the budget holder and the ultimate responsibility for the accountability of these transactions. So in theory, if a check stub is written for staff lunch, the principal should catch that in their monthly review procedures and say, oh, this isn't allowable. We need to fix this information. So it's really important to make sure that the principals are trained and that they're doing the review of the monthly reconciliation reports each month. Then for procedure four, Procedure four is to determine whether the student body funds district review provides adequate oversight of the student body funds to ensure complete and accurate accounting, tracking and safeguarding of student body funds. So in this long report, if you will Flip to page 66, this is in the student body funds manual. This is what the accounting services department says that they will do. And this is an excellent document. I found it awesome. So it says student body funds reviews are conducted using a wisp based approach. The frequency of review for particular schools based on several risk factors and is established annually to give particular attention to schools with the following. And then it kind of lists some risk factors for schools. So I really like what they're doing. I think the risk race approach is great. The problem is is that the district has not performed these procedures since the 21, 2021 school year. So if the I hear with the accounting services department and their response, they talk about having had two FPE and now they have one fpe. And I mean in the foreseeable future I don't necessarily see the likelihood of increasing step. So I think it's really important to take a look at these procedures specifically the student body funds district review and still complete them perhaps at a lower level, but instead of discontinuing this practice because this is probably the best way to provide oversight for these. But we don't. The accounting services department doesn't need to go to every school every year. The risk based approach is the right approach. And perhaps instead of planning to do 10 schools, maybe they can do five or something like that. So the recommendation is that they do pick this procedure back up. And I know they did agree with the recommendation to start performing these, but they also mentioned the reduced fbe. So I think that there's an opportunity to reduce the number of schools that we go to, but still do Some that would provide a better amount of oversight. Hopefully that makes sense. Okay. The recommendation five is to determine whether the student body funds policy, administrative directive, student body fund manual and training materials contain adequate instruction and they're reviewed and updated as necessary. So if you go to page 23 midpage, you can look at the results. The results are. I'm going to summarize this. The results are that the policy administrative director are very, very high level, you know, two paragraphs, which is okay. It doesn't necessarily. The process and procedures don't necessarily have to be placed there, but they need to be somewhere. So the policy and administrative directive, which are both very short and high level, do not provide like the very specific instructions on how to do student body fund oversight of management. However, in combination with the student body funds manual, which is included as an appendix, the manual is excellent and the training is excellent. So. So instead of having the actual procedures documented in the administrative directive, they do it in the student body plans manual, which is great. Wherever it is, it doesn't matter necessarily. It's just that it is listed somewhere. So overall, all of those things in combination we found work great. They provided the appropriate level of instruction and guidance on how to do things, with the exception of one thing, which is the thing that I wanted to bring up from the prior procedure too related to the gang workers. What we found is that. So the cost of. So the cost of admissions to athletic events is being receipted currently into the student body funds account and the cost of game workers is being paid for out of the student body funds account. However, these are not related to student body fund expenses. So this transaction illustrates how the utilization of a student body fund account as a pass through account for non student body fund related activities does not provide adequate accountability, management and oversight of these pass through funds. So basically the athletics department are utilizing the student body funds account as a pass through for management of athletic department revenues and expenses and which is, you know, if they want to pass that those funds through, we wouldn't be of the opinion to say no, but we are of the opinion that that pass through needs to be monitored. And currently the administrative directive, the manual and the training slides do not provide any oversight accountability for those funds that are being passed through the student body fund account. So for example, with the game workers, when the athletic department comes to the student body fund coordinator and asks for payment for the game workers, the student body fund coordinator at that school has not been trained to collect supporting the appropriate supporting documentation related to gain workers because it's not a student body fund activity. So there's no training or materials that tells them how to handle those situations related to fasting. So our recommendation here is to either discontinue the utilization of the student body funds account as a pass through account for other expenses like athletics, or they need to update the administrative directive, the training slides and the manual to provide an appropriate level of oversight for those funds that are being passed through the account. I think you said earlier you found that there was some pass through but they didn't say where the money went or who was paying it. Right? Exactly. That's the game workers that we talked about. That was in procedure two where we tested and we found that the supporting documentation related to those gain workers expenditures was not included. So it's okay to use the account as a cross through, but you can't do it without providing appropriate level of oversight. So it can be one or the other. In reality, I can see that it's probably easier for the athletics department to continue to utilize it as a pass through, to pass it through. But what we're left with is situations where there's no accountability for those related transactions. So it can't really be sold. It needs to be one or the other. They're going to pass through, provide the guidance and instructions and accountability for those funds or discontinue the use of the student body funds account as it has to. And that's everything. Oh, sorry. Does anyone have any questions about this?

start time: 744:41:30.000
end time: 745:49:06.000
confidence: 0.95
A: I don't have any questions because Jay.

start time: 745:49:38.000
end time: 747:57:10.000
confidence: 0.90
C: Is here representing the county services department and he is excited to answer any questions.

start time: 748:26:50.000
end time: 751:31:30.000
confidence: 0.96
B: No, I didn't have any questions. I was just going to ask if, man. I mean I read through it. It's a good report and I appreciate that we're agreeing with the recommendations. Management is. And I just wanted to know if management had anything more to in terms of context to the response.

start time: 751:42:30.000
end time: 760:12:50.000
confidence: 0.96
A: Great question. Yeah, no, I. We 100% agree with all of the findings and I think, you know, a large part of it is things that we assume will be found and our department's been working on improving those things for many years with less resources. So yeah, we totally agree. We want to make these improvements and find this a great opportunity to just go hard and fast in addressing those things.

start time: 760:59:10.000
end time: 841:34:12.000
confidence: 0.93
C: Before concluding on this topic, I do want to bring one more thing to your attention. In the appendix s That's report page 87 at the very end of the report. There are a couple of other recommendations that we provided for consideration that I just to mention. And one of Them is the creation and utilization of a tiered infraction table which is something that is utilized in the PCARD department. So as was mentioning, the county services department has over the years identified a lot of the same issues that we identified and they have been working to address those on their own even before we did the audit. What they have been doing has not been as effective as I think that they would like for it to be, otherwise we wouldn't have found the exceptions in our testing. So I really would like for their department to consider the utilization of a tier. And we don't want to make mistakes punitive, we don't want to punish people if they mess up. But it is important to refresh someone's memory on what the expectations are whenever something is missed. So for example, in the PCARD department, if you don't submit all of your documentation into the PCARD filing system on time, then it's like a tier one infraction and perhaps that result of that is to take a training or redo the training or something like that. So it's just a small consequence just to remind them of the expectations of what was missing. And I know that the PCARD department worked very hard over many years to create this tiered infraction. And we audited the PCARD department a few years ago and what we found is since the implementation and utilization of this infection paired infection table, they've actually got a quite a bit better compliance with their overall process and procedures and expectations. So although it's not the exact same, you know, dollar amounts for P card and dollar amounts for student body funds are totally different. So I wouldn't expect the same heightened level of across the board, but something like a peer infraction where if something's missed the consequences a refresher on what was missed in the form of a training or there's, you know, there's multiple steps in the tier defaction table that is utilized by the PCR department. But I just wanted to kind of mention that as one of the things that they could consider for helping with the implementation of or not implementation with the consistency of getting everything that they're supposed to get when they're supposed to be getting, I'm not sure the rights, but definitely not punitive. We don't want to do that. Another recommendation for consideration in here that I wanted to point out is also we want to recommend that the accounting services department allow principals to utilize a proxy for all of their pre approval items. So right now if a transaction is over $500, the principal has to pre approve the transaction. And again, that is on a written form that is either typed in and printed and has the principal signed or, you know, e signed and maybe they email back and forth to approve it. But that needs to be done before the purchase can be made. And at some of the high school, we found those transactions are taking place multiple times a day. And so having the principal do a pre approval for all of those transactions is really inefficient. So we're recommending that they increase the dollar amount for the pre approval instead of requiring a Pre approval at 500 that they increase it. We didn't say exactly to how much, but maybe 750 or maybe 1,000, depending on. We don't want a pre approval to be required on every single transaction. It's supposed to be for transactions that are higher than normal.

start time: 841:36:36.000
end time: 847:15:10.000
confidence: 0.94
A: Okay, so maybe could we work with the accounting department to identify what that right sized dollar amount would be. I want to do a time check. We've got seven minutes left and two more agenda items. And I want to be mindful of everybody's time. And so we have two more things. One is a stats update from the Office of Internal Performance Audit.

start time: 847:18:20.000
end time: 860:06:30.000
confidence: 0.94
C: This will be very quickly. So last year in this meeting I provided the annual audit report. And the policy says I need to do it at the beginning of the fiscal year or within 90 days of fiscal year end. So I really need to do it in September. So I'm not providing it today, but I will do it in September. I just. Last year was the first year I created the report because I have something to report on. But now we have it and you will get it in the fall. I want to be aligned with the policy because I am an auditor. So just have my eye. You guys will get that. And the policy says within 90 days of fiscal year end. So you'll get it in September.

start time: 860:24:10.000
end time: 871:11:50.000
confidence: 0.92
A: And we only have one more update and that's on the performance evaluation for the senior auditor. And Patty and I will be getting together tomorrow to work on that. And I've got an extension, by the way, to turn back in. So it was due tomorrow and we were going to start working on it tomorrow. I didn't want to be too rushed, so I want to do a really thoughtful job and we'll start that work tomorrow and we'll wrap it up within, you know, 10 days to no later than two weeks. And I think that's all. Unless. Do we have anything or. Andrew?

start time: 871:25:30.000
end time: 880:53:50.000
confidence: 0.97
B: No, the only thing. Thanks for all that and. And I thanks again for the audit on the student funds and and I I guess I would just I appreciated the work and the recommendations and the follow up and I kind of wanted to amplify a little bit what staff said. I it's always worth pointing out these are things that take administrative dollars to do well. And so when we talk about how we do this and the training and all the things that are needed, I just want to point out, you know, when we talk about, you know, the budget and constructing the budget and where we're going to from these are the kind of things that can suffer if we're not careful about where we are making budget reduction. So that would be my, my final comment. Otherwise good meeting. Thanks.

start time: 880:56:30.000
end time: 882:08:30.000
confidence: 0.98
A: Excellent. Thank you. I appreciate that. That's that's all true what Andrew said.

start time: 882:10:30.000
end time: 882:17:02.000
confidence: 0.96
C: All right.

start time: 882:17:26.000
end time: 883:21:30.000
confidence: 0.96
A: I think we're adjourned then. Thank you everyone at 5:55.

start time: 884:23:50.000
end time: 884:33:50.000
confidence: 0.27
C: Everybody.

